<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY kopete "<application>Kopete</application>">
<!ENTITY cryptography "<application>Cryptography</application>">
<!ENTITY package "extragear">
<!ENTITY kappname "&kopete;">
<!ENTITY im "<acronym>IM</acronym>">
<!ENTITY Olivier.Goffart "<personname><firstname>Olivier</firstname><surname>Goffart</surname></personname>">
<!ENTITY Olivier.Goffart.mail "<email>ogoffart@kde.org</email>">
<!ENTITY Charles.Connell "<personname><firstname>Charles</firstname><surname>Connell</surname></personname>">
<!ENTITY Charles.Connell.mail "<email>charles@connells.org</email>">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">

<sect1 id="plugins-cryptography">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Olivier.Goffart; &Olivier.Goffart.mail;</author>
<author>&Charles.Connell; &Charles.Connell.mail;</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS --> 
</authorgroup>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2007-10-14</date>
<releaseinfo>1.3.0</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>The &cryptography; plugin allows you to send and receive encrypted and/or signed messages.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>extragear</keyword>
<keyword>cryptography</keyword>
<keyword>plugins</keyword>
<keyword>kopete</keyword>
<keyword>gpg</keyword>
<keyword>pgp</keyword>
</keywordset>

</sect1info>

<title>Cryptography Plugin</title>

<sect2 id="cryptography-summary">

<title>Cryptography</title>

<para>Cryptography lets you use an OpenPGP implementation to encrypt and sign messages in conversations.  Note that this is not the same as an SSL secured chat session.  Cryptography can encrypt your messages to a single individual so that only the holder of the matching key can read it.  If you wish that the recipient of your messages can verify that you have sent your messages, you may sign messages.  Signing and encryption can be used separately or together. When you recieve a message, if it has been encrypted, you will see a lock icon. If it has been signed with a verifiable signature (you have the public key of the sender), you will see a pen icon.  For a non-verifiable signature, a red pen icon will be shown.</para>

<para>To configure Cryptography, select your private key in the plugin configuration page.  Then, using <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Select Public Key...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from each meta-contact's context menu, choose their public key.  You will be prompted for your passphrase when using this plugin.</para>

<para>Due to limitations in some of the instant messaging protocols that &kopete; uses, encrypted messages cannot be sent with those protocols.  If you attempt to use an unsupported protocol, you will be warned.</para>

<para>Cryptography can use the public keys stored in your &kde; address book for each contact.  However, it must be
able to know which address book entry is associated with which meta-contact.  To provide this information, choose
Properties from the meta-contact context menu, and then set the Address Book Link.  Cryptography can also export
public keys that you have set to your address book.  If a meta-contact has an address book link, then the key will go in
the correct address book entry, replacing an existing one.  If no link exists (possibly because no address book entry
exists for the individual in question), a new entry will be created. This entry will have two fields filled: the public key from &kopete; and the meta-contact's display name.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="credits">
<title>Credits</title>
&underFDL;
&underGPL;
<para>Cryptography copyright &copy; 2002-2007 &Olivier.Goffart; &Olivier.Goffart.mail; and &copy; 2007 &Charles.Connell; &Charles.Connell.mail;</para>

<para>Documentation copyright &copy; &Olivier.Goffart; &Olivier.Goffart.mail; and &copy; 2007 &Charles.Connell; &Charles.Connell.mail;</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>
</article>
