<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kopete "<application>Kopete</application>">
  <!ENTITY Will.Stephenson "<personname><firstname>Will</firstname><surname>Stephenson</surname></personname>">
  <!ENTITY Will.Stephenson.mail "<email>lists@stevello.free-online.co.uk</email>">
  <!ENTITY package "kdenetwork">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kopete;">
  <!ENTITY im "<acronym>IM</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
  <!ENTITY kopetewww "<ulink url='http://kopete.kde.org'>http://kopete.kde.org</ulink>">
  <!ENTITY kopete-menus SYSTEM "menus.docbook">
]>
<!--
Intro (1st draft, Will)
Getting Started (1st draft, Will)
        Add an account
        Go online
        Start chatting
Using Kopete (1st draft, Will)
        Contact List window
		Layout
			Menu
			Toolbar
			Contact List view
			Status bar
		Set your presence
		Start a chat
            	Organising contacts
                	Adding contacts
				Metacontacts
			Grouping Contacts
				Within Metacontacts
			Renaming Contacts
		Configure &kopete;
		Quit.
		Shortcuts
        Chat window
		Layout
			Chat members list
			Status bar (typing notifications, etc )
			Tabbing
		Starting group chats
		Shortcuts
	        File transfers
Configuring Kopete (1st draft, Will)
	Global Shortcuts 
	Configure Dialog
		Adding/Editing Accounts (
		Behaviour 
		Appearance
	Loading Plugins
Plugins (Outlined, Will)
        (Section on each plugin, use, and configuration)
Menus (Done, Will)
        (Short description of each menu item)
FAQ (1st draft, Will)
Specialised Tasks
    (Any tricks involving _use_ of Kopete)
	Command line flags
Credits (1st draft, Will)
Appendix: Obtaining and installation (1st draft, Will)
-->

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kopete; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>

<author>&Will.Stephenson; &Will.Stephenson.mail;</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2004-02-24</date>
<releaseinfo>0.9</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year>2003, 2004</year>
</copyright>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract>
<para>
&kopete; is &kde;'s multi-protocol instant messenger client.
</para>
</abstract>


<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>IM</keyword>
<keyword>Instant</keyword>
<keyword>Messaging</keyword>
<keyword>Jabber</keyword>
<keyword>IRC</keyword>
<keyword>MSN</keyword>
<keyword>ICQ</keyword>
<keyword>AIM</keyword>
<keyword>Yahoo</keyword>
<keyword>Gadu-Gadu</keyword>
<keyword>WinPopup</keyword>
<keyword>SMS</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>
<!--
<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Will</firstname>
<surname>Stephenson</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>lists@stevello.free-online.co.uk</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
</authorgroup>
<date>2003-10-05</date>
<releaseinfo>0.8</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
-->
<sect1 id="intro-to-kopete">
<title>Kopete, the &kde; instant messaging client</title>
<sect2 id="intro-to-kopete-next">
<title>Before starting...</title>
<para>If you're not familiar with Instant Messaging, please read the <link linkend="getting-started">Getting Started</link> section to learn about this wonderful world before continuing.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="intro-to-kopete-about">
<title>What is &kopete;?</title>
<para>&kopete; is the &kde; instant messaging (&im;) client.  It allows you to communicate with your friends and colleagues using various instant messaging services.  A single program is easy to learn and convenient if your friends or colleagues use more than one &im; service.  </para>
<para>&kopete; is designed to integrate well with your &kde; desktop; to make it immediately familiar.  The user interface is clean and simple, without any frills to distract the user.  At the same time, &kopete; aims to make communication the focus of &im;, by removing the differences between different &im; systems.  One feature &kopete; introduced to support this is the <link linkend="organise-contacts-metacontacts">Metacontact</link>, combining the various means there are to contact someone into a single <quote>person</quote> in your contact list.  Other multiprotocol instant messengers list the same person's various &im; accounts separately, making it confusing for non experienced people. &kopete; makes life easy: a metacontact is a person, and contacts are ways to communicate with that person. You will recognize contacts in a metacontact easily as small icons representing the &im; services you could use to communicate with that person.</para>
<para>&kopete; is intended for all levels of users.  Out of the box, it supports a minimal set of functions to make chatting as easy as possible.  More advanced users can add extra functions such as Cryptography with &kopete;'s <link linkend="plugins">plugin system</link>.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="intro-to-kopete-web">
<title>More &kopete; Information on the Web</title>
<para>For more info about the &kopete; project; the team maintains a website at &kopetewww;.  The latest news and updates are always available there.</para>
<para>If you need to contact the team, the &kopete; developers' mailing list is hosted at <ulink url="https://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kopete-devel">https://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kopete-devel</ulink>.</para>
<para>If you want live support, there is an Internet Relay Chat channel for &kopete; where you can find the team discussing technical (well, not always) issues or just hanging out. You can use any IRC client to join the channel (including &kopete;), just add an IRC contact and use <userinput>irc.kde.org</userinput> as the server and <userinput>#kopete</userinput> as the channel name. See you there!</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="intro-to-instant-messaging">
<title>Introduction to Instant Messaging</title>
<para>What is Instant Messaging (&im;)? &im; is a way for you to communicate instantly with your friends over the Internet.  That might not sound so different to email.  Have you ever noticed how cumbersome it is to have a brief conversation via email?  You have to click Reply to each message, then find the right spot in the message to type something new, then send it.  Then you have to wait for the next message to arrive! &im; lets you to have a conversation almost as naturally as on the phone or face to face, by typing messages into a window shared between you and your friend's screens.</para>
<para>Another difference between &im; and email is that with &im; you can see your friends' presence, that is, whether they are actually on-line at the same time as you.  This lets you send messages truly instantly, instead of sending off a mail and having to wait for your friend to check their mailbox.  An &im; message pops up on the other person's screen as soon as you send it.  Of course, if you'd rather not be interrupted, you can change your own presence so others will know not to disturb you.</para>
<para>There are lots of other fun and useful &im; features you can explore with &kopete;, like group chats, file transfers and emoticons that reflect your mood. Read on to find out more!</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="getting-started">
<title>Getting Started</title>
<para>To use &kopete; you need to set up one or more accounts for the instant messaging services you wish to use.</para>
<para>You've probably already chosen a messaging service, either because you already use &im;, or you need to use the same service as your friends.  If you don't fit into either of these categories, please consider using a messaging service based on open standards, because these are designed for use by Free Software.  Other messaging services are prone to changing the underlying technology without making the details freely available, making them harder for Free Software developers to support.</para>
<para>The messaging services that &kopete; supports that are based on open standards are Jabber and IRC.</para>
<para>The following section assumes you are registered with an &im; service already.  If not, you can register with Gadu-Gadu, Jabber, and <trademark>MSN</trademark> from inside &kopete;; for other services, you'll have to register using their respective web site before creating an account in &kopete;.</para>
<sect1 id="creating-accounts">
<title>Creating Accounts</title>
<para>To create an account, use <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure &kopete;...</guimenuitem> </menuchoice> to display the Configure window.</para>
<para>The Configure window is the main way to set up and customize &kopete;.  On the left a column of icons control which aspect of &kopete; is being configured.  Click the <guiicon>Accounts</guiicon> icon.  The main pane will change to display the account management pane.  This is currently empty, but will soon list your &im; accounts.  Click <guibutton>New</guibutton> to display the <interface>Account Wizard</interface>.</para>
<para>The <interface>Account Wizard</interface> helps you create an &im; account.  After the <guilabel>Introduction</guilabel> page, you are asked to select the messaging service that you'd like to use.  Click one of the services shown and then click <guibutton>Next</guibutton>.  On the following page, you should enter your registration details for that instant messaging service.</para>
<para>Most services just require you to enter a username or unique identifying number (<acronym>UIN</acronym>) and password.  The special purpose services Winpopup and <acronym>SMS</acronym> work slightly differently, so please see their specific sections.  There are a couple of other options that apply to most services that you should look at:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Remember password</term><listitem><para>When this is checked, &kopete; will store the password for you, so you don't have to enter it every time you connect to the &im; service.  If you are security-conscious or want to limit access to the &im; account you can leave this unchecked.</para></listitem></varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Connect at startup</term><listitem><para>When this is checked, &kopete; will try to connect to the &im; service as when it starts.  If you use a <acronym>LAN</acronym>, <acronym>DSL</acronym> or other <quote>always-on</quote> connection, this is appropriate; dial-up modem users should turn this off and connect manually when you have dialed up.</para></listitem></varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Once you've entered your &im; details, you can proceed to the <guilabel>Finished!</guilabel> page and then dismiss the wizard and the Configure window.</para>
</sect1><!-- creating-accounts -->
<sect1 id="go-online">
<title>Go Online and Start Chatting!</title>
<para>Now you'll notice that an icon representing the account has appeared in the status bar at the bottom of the &kopete; <interface>Contact List</interface> window.  This represents your current presence for this account.  <mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on it and you can go online from the menu that appears.  The status bar icon will animate while &kopete; connects to the &im; service.</para>
<para>Once you're online, if you've used this &im; service before, your contacts will be fetched from the server and displayed in the <interface>Contact List</interface>.  To start a chat with a contact, just click their name and a Chat window will appear.  The upper part of the window is where the conversation appears - to say something, type into the bottom part of the window and click <guibutton>Send</guibutton>.</para>
<para>If you've just created a new account you won't have any contacts.  See <link linkend="organise-contacts-adding">Adding Contacts</link> for details on how to add contacts.</para>
<tip><para>The shortcut for <guibutton>Send</guibutton> is set to <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Enter;</keycombo> by default; you can change it in the Chat window using <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para></tip>
</sect1><!-- go-online -->
</chapter>

<chapter id="using-kopete">
<title>Using &kopete;</title>
<para>This chapter gives an overview of &kopete;'s basic features.  We will look first at the contact list, where your contacts are displayed, and then at the Chat window, where you carry out a conversation.</para>
<sect1 id="contact-list">
<title>The Contact List</title>
<para>The <interface>Contact List</interface> appears when you start &kopete;.  It's the main window where you can set your presence, start a chat, organize your contacts, configure &kopete; and quit.</para>
<sect2 id="contact-list-layout">
<title>Layout of the Contact List window</title>
<sect3 id="contact-list-layout-menu"><title>Menu</title><para>You will usually find the menu bar at the top of the contact list.  If it's not there, you might have turned it off; you can re-enable it with <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo>.  Details on each menu item can be found in the <link linkend="menus">chapter on menu structure</link>.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="contact-list-layout-toolbar"><title>Tool bar</title><para>The toolbar holds the most frequently used &kopete; actions.  You can customize it with <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  Notice the <guibutton>Show Offline Users</guibutton> and <guibutton>Show Empty Groups</guibutton> buttons.  With these you can hide contacts and groups that are offline.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="contact-list-layout-contactlist"><title>Contact List</title><para>The <interface>Contact List</interface> takes up the main part of the window.  All your contacts are listed here, in the groups you have chosen for them.  You can open or close groups by clicking the plus symbol adjacent to the group.  You can reverse the order the groups are sorted in by clicking the <guilabel>Contacts</guilabel> label above the list.</para>
<para>The context menu in the <interface>Contact List</interface> changes depending on the item under the mouse.  <link linkend="organise-contacts-grouping">Groups</link>, <link linkend="organise-contacts-metacontacts">Metacontacts</link> and &im; system specific contacts have their own options.  In empty areas of the <interface>Contact List</interface>, the context menu allows you to add contacts or groups, or change the viewing options for the list.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="contact-list-layout-statusbar"><title>Status bar</title><para>The status bar shows an icon for each &im; account you have created.  The icons represent the current presence of each account, which can be changed by <mousebutton>right</mousebutton>-clicking the account icon.  </para>
</sect3>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="contact-list-setting-presence">
<title>Setting Your Presence</title>
<para>We introduced you to setting presence <link linkend="go-online">in the previous chapter</link>.  'Presence' determines how visible you are on the &im; network.  To use the network at all, you have to connect to the network, so you can send and receive messages and see others' presence.  Once you are connected, most &im; systems allow you to indicate what you're doing and whether you want to chat by setting special types of presence such as <emphasis>Away</emphasis> or <emphasis>Free For Chat</emphasis>.  The difference presence settings are particular to each away system; but &kopete; allows you some control all your &im; systems at once by setting them to <emphasis>Away</emphasis> or <emphasis>Available</emphasis> at the same time.</para>
<para>You set your presence for individual &im; accounts by <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> clicking the account's icon in the <interface>status</interface> bar at the bottom of the <interface>Contact List</interface>.  The context menu for each account lets you choose the possible presence settings for each &im; system.</para>
<para>To change all your accounts' presence together, click the <guibutton>Status</guibutton>, or use the <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Status</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="contact-list-start-chat">
<title>Start A Chat From The Contact List</title>
<para>To start a chat from the <interface>Contact List</interface>, simply click a contact.  A <link linkend="chat-window">Chat window</link> will appear.</para>
<para>You can also <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click a contact and select either <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Send Message</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Start Chat</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Send Message</guimenuitem></menuchoice> works differently in that it just sends a single message without opening the <interface>Chat window</interface>, using a simple dialog.  Use it for <quote>fire-and-forget</quote> messages.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="organise-contacts">
<title>Organising Contacts</title>
<sect3 id="organise-contacts-metacontacts">
<title>A Word about Metacontacts</title>
<para>One of the principles behind &kopete; is that it offers a standardized way to use &im; systems.  Differences between &im; systems are smoothed over, making it easier to communicate.  We follow this principle in the way contacts are organized.  When you use &kopete; you just find contacts by name; the actual &im; system used is less important.  Some people have more than one &im; account - &kopete; puts the person using the account first.</para>
<para>To support this, &kopete; introduced <quote>Metacontacts</quote>, which represent the person you want to chat with.  One Metacontact contains all the different &im; IDs they may have, making it easy to see with a glance at the Metacontact whether someone is available, regardless of which &im; system they are using right now.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="organise-contacts-grouping">
<title>A Word about Grouping Contacts</title>
<para>&kopete; lets you create groups to sort your contacts.  A contact may be in more than one group.  Where possible, groupings are saved on server side contact lists, so if you use other &im; programs, group memberships are kept in sync.  However, if you change groups in another &im; program, &kopete; cannot know to move a metacontact automatically; it is up to you to resolve this by hand.</para>

</sect3><sect3 id="organise-contacts-adding">
<title>Adding Contacts</title>
<para>To add a contact, either select <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Add Contact...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or click the <guibutton>Add Contact</guibutton> button on the toolbar.  This brings up the Add Contact Wizard.</para>
<para>The Add Contact Wizard creates a new Metacontact using one or more &im; systems, byleads you through the following pages:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>Welcome Page.  Here you can choose whether you want to use the &kde; Address Book for this contact.  Storing &im; information in the &kde; Address Book will enable other &kde; &im; programs to share contact information with &kopete; and in future &kde; applications may use &kopete; to send information via &im;.  If you prefer to keep your &im; contacts separated, clear the checkbox here.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Choose &kde; Address Book entry.  By choosing an entry from your &kde; Address Book, you can use its name as a Display Name in &kopete;.  You can also create a new entry here.  This page doesn't show if you chose not to use the &kde; Address Book.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Select Display Name and Group.  Here you can enter a Display Name (the name used for this person inside &kopete;), and choose the <link linkend="organise-contacts-grouping">groups</link> they are a member of.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Select &im; Accounts.  Here you can choose which accounts you want to use to chat to the new contact.  If you only have one &im; account, you won't see this screen.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Account-specific Add Contact Pages.  For each account, you'll get one page where you can enter the <acronym>UIN</acronym>, buddy name or E-mail address, depending on the &im; system in use.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Finish Screen.  All done.  Except if the &im; system requires authorisation (such as <trademark>ICQ</trademark>) to add a contact to your list - in which case, you'll be prompted after the wizard exits.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>You can add contacts to an existing Metacontact using its context menu.</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="organise-contacts-renaming">
<title>Renaming Contacts</title>
<para>You can rename a contact using <menuchoice><guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Rename Contact</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or with the same item on the metacontact context menu.</para>
<para>Some &im; systems allow you to set a <quote>Display Name</quote> that is different to your username, such as <quote>Alice loves crypto!</quote>.  If you change a contact's name manually, this will override their Display Name.  To get it back, open the Properties dialog for that contact and check the <guilabel>Use the name given by the server</guilabel> checkbox.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="organise-contacts-removing">
<title>Removing Contacts</title>
<para>If you no longer want a contact to be in the contact list, you can remove a Metacontact and all the contacts under it with <menuchoice><guimenu>Metacontact context menu</guimenu><guimenuitem>Remove Contact</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="organise-contacts-moving-contact">
<title>Moving Contacts between Metacontacts</title>
<para>You can change the metacontact a contact belongs to.  In practice, you only have to do this when you have just added multiple accounts to &kopete;, and you know that HotDog76 and mikejones@hotmail.com are both the same person.</para>
<para>There are two ways to do this:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Drag and Drop</term><listitem><para>The contact icon to the right of the Metacontact name may be dragged from one Metacontact to another.</para></listitem></varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Contact Context Menu</term><listitem><para>The context menu for contacts (<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton>-click the contact icon) allows you to choose the new Metacontact from a dialog.</para></listitem></varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>If the move would leave a Metacontact empty (with no contacts), you'll be asked if you want to delete this contact.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="organise-contacts-removing-contacts-">
<title>Removing Contacts from Metacontacts</title>
<para>To remove a contact from a Metacontact, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Contact context menu</guimenu><guimenuitem>Delete Contact...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</sect3>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="contact-list-configure">
<title>Configure &kopete;</title>
<para>You can configure &kopete; using <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure &kopete;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  See the <link linkend="configuring">next chapter</link> for details.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="contact-list-quit">
<title>Exiting &kopete;</title>
<para>To exit &kopete; you should use <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem></menuchoice>, <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>, or the &kopete; System Tray icon's context menu.  If you just close the <interface>Contact List</interface> window, &kopete; will continue to run in the &kde; System Tray.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="contact-list-shortcuts">
<title>Keyboard shortcuts</title>
<para>The following keyboard shortcuts are supported in the <interface>Contact List</interface> window:</para>
<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyboard Shortcut</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Up Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry>Select the previous item in the contact list.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Down Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry>Select the next item in the contact list.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry>Close the current group.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry>Open the current group.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Enter</keycap></entry>
<entry>Start a chat with the selected contact.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Show/Hide the menu bar.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Show/Hide offline users.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Show/Hide empty groups.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>
</sect2>
</sect1><!-- contact-list -->

<sect1 id="chat-window">
<title>The Chat Window</title>
<sect2 id="chat-window-layout"><title>Layout of the Chat Window</title>
<sect3 id="chat-window-layout-chatview"><title>The Chat View</title><para>The Chat View usually takes up most of the Chat window and is where the conversation between you and your contacts takes place.  Messages appear in the order they are received, with the earliest messages at the top of the view.</para>
<para>You can <link linkend="configuring-appearance">control</link> the appearance of the <interface>Chat View</interface>, making it look like other &im; clients or create a completely individual look.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="chat-window-layout-memberslist"><title>Chat Members List</title>
<para>Since some &im; systems allow you to chat as a group, it's useful to see who's chatting at the moment.  The Chat Members List appears to the left or the right of the Chat View.  You can change this using <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guisubmenu>Chat Members List</guisubmenu></menuchoice>.  The contact context menu is available in the Chat Members List.</para></sect3>
<sect3 id="chat-window-layout-input-area"><title>Input Area</title><para>The Input Area is below the Chat View.  This is where you type messages before sending them.  You can change the font and color of the message using the usual tools on the toolbar.  If the &im; system supports this, your messages will appear in color when your contacts read them.</para><para>By default, the keyboard shortcut to send messages is <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Enter;</keycombo>.</para></sect3>
<sect3 id="chat-window-layout-statusbar"><title>Status Bar</title><para>The Status Bar contains temporary messages, such as notification that someone else is typing, as well as the <guibutton>Send</guibutton> button.</para></sect3>
<sect3 id="chat-window-layout-tabbing"><title>Tabbing</title><para>&kopete; lets you carry on multiple conversations in one window, by putting each one in its own tab within the window.  The tab titles change color to show when a new message has been received:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Red</term><listitem><para>Someone typed a message.</para></listitem></varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Blue</term><listitem><para>Someone typed a message containing your nickname.</para></listitem></varlistentry>
</variablelist> 
<para>There are several different ways to control grouping.  To configure this behavior, go to the Chat tab of the Behavior page of the Configure &kopete; dialog.  You can also move chats between windows using the <menuchoice><guimenu>Tabs</guimenu></menuchoice> menu, and control the placement of the tabs in the window.</para></sect3>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="chat-window-group">
<title>Group Chats in &kopete;</title>
<para>You can use &kopete; to chat one to one, or in a group, where the &im; system supports this.</para>
<para>MSN lets you invite others into a chat using <menuchoice><guimenu>Chat</guimenu><guisubmenu>Invite</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>&lt;contact name&gt;</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="chat-window-file-xfer">
<title>File Transfers</title>
<para>Some &im; systems allow you to send and receive files.  You can access this function from the contact's context menu.  If you're already chatting, and want to send a file, select the recipient from the <menuchoice><guimenu>Chat</guimenu><guisubmenu>Contacts</guisubmenu></menuchoice> menu.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="chat-window-shortcuts">
<title>Keyboard Shortcuts</title>
<para>The following keyboard shortcuts are supported in the Chat window:</para>
<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyboard Shortcut</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Enter;</keycombo></entry>
<entry>Send the message in the <interface>Input Area</interface>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Print the contents of the Chat View.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Save the contents of the Chat View.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Close the current Chat View.  The Chat window will close unless there is more than one tab in the window.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Change to the previous tab.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Change to the next tab.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Detach a tabbed chat into a separate window.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycap>Tab</keycap></entry>
<entry>Complete a partially typed nickname belonging to someone you're chatting with.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>
</sect2>

</sect1><!-- chat-window -->
</chapter><!-- Using-kopete -->

<chapter id="configuring">
<title>Configuring &kopete;</title>
<para>To configure &kopete;, look in the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu></menuchoice> menu.  </para>
<sect1 id="configuring-global-shortcuts">
<title>Global Shortcuts</title>
<para>&kopete; defines some shortcuts which are valid in any &kde; application.</para>
<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Global Keyboard Shortcuts</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Read Message.  This is useful if you have hidden the <interface>Contact List</interface> window and the system tray icon is animating to tell you you have a new message.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry>Show/hide (Dock) the <interface>Contact List</interface> window.  <emphasis>Warning:</emphasis> If you have disabled &kopete;'s System Tray icon or don't have a system tray, this can make the <interface>Contact List</interface> vanish - the only way to restore it is to repeat this shortcut.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="configure-dialog">
<title>The Configure &kopete; Dialog</title>
<sect2 id="configuring-accounts">
<title>Adding and Editing Accounts</title>
<para>We briefly showed you how to add an account in <link linkend="getting-started">Getting Started</link>.  To change an account's settings later, open up the <guilabel>Configure &kopete;</guilabel> dialog, with <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure &kopete;</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  Much like the &kde; Control Center, the configuration is separated into sections.  The icons on the left side of the dialog switch between sections.</para>
<para>On the Accounts page, you can <link linkend="creating-accounts"><guibutton>Add</guibutton></link>, <guibutton>Remove</guibutton>, or <guibutton>Modify</guibutton> accounts.  Editing accounts is much the same as adding them, but note that you can't change the UIN, buddy name, or whatever account identifier your &im; system uses.  This is intrinsic to the account.  If you want to change this, you will have to add another account with the new account identifier and (optionally) remove the old account.</para>
<para>You can quickly distinguish between multiple accounts using the same &im; system by giving a custom color to each account's status bar entry and contact icons.  To do so, select the account and click the color selector on the right side of the page. </para>
<para>You can control the priority of accounts using the <guiicon>Up</guiicon> and <guiicon>Down</guiicon> icons on this page.  If you have more than one way to message a contact, this determines the &im; system &kopete; will use to communicate them.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="configuring-behavior">
<title>Behavior</title>
<para>Behavior covers the way &kopete; integrates with your desktop, <emphasis>Away</emphasis> settings, and chat user interface options.</para>
<sect3 id="configuring-behavior-general">
<title>The General tab</title>
<para>Here you can customize &kopete;'s desktop integration, and control the way the contact list is laid out.</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show the system tray icon</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>By default, &kopete; places an icon in the &kde; System Tray.  If you prefer, you can turn this off here.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Start hidden</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This causes &kopete; to start with the <interface>Contact List</interface> window hidden (docked).  You can make it visible by clicking the system tray icon or with the <link linkend="configuring-global-shortcuts">Show Contact List global shortcut</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use message queue</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The message queue is where &kopete; puts messages when there is no chat window open.  This allows you to be notified of new messages with popup <quote>speech bubbles</quote>; or by animating the System Tray icon.  If you choose to disable the message queue, chat windows will open as soon as you receive a new message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<sect4 id="configuring-behavior-general-notifications">
<title>Notifications</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show a bubble on new message</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This option shows a <quote>speech bubble</quote>; coming from the System Tray icon when you receive a new message.  You can start a chat or ignore the message.  <acronym>URL</acronym>s are extracted from the message; if you click a link, your preferred browser will open the link and the message will be dismissed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Flash the system tray on new messages</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This option causes the System Tray icon to animate when you receive a new message.  Clicking the icon will show the message in a chat window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable events while away</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you do not wish to be distracted by these notifications while you are set <emphasis>Away</emphasis>, uncheck this box.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Configure Sounds &amp; Events</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Sounds, flashing taskbar entries, passive popups and more exotic notifications are supported in &kopete; using the &kde; notification system.  Type <userinput>help:/kcontrol/kcmnotify</userinput>  in &konqueror; or select the Help tab in the <guilabel>System Notifications</guilabel> section of the &kcontrol; for more information.</para>
<para>You can use the <quote>Execute a program</quote> notification to perform custom notifications.  As an example, if you have <application>XOSD</application> (X On-Screen Display) installed, you can get OSD online notifications by executing the following command when the <quote>User goes online</quote> event takes place:</para>
<para><userinput>echo %s | osd_cat -o 100 -p bottom -A center -f -*-helvetica-*-r-*-*-24-*-*-*-*-*-*-* -O 2 -c gold</userinput></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>
<sect4 id="configuring-behavior-general-contactlist">
<title>Contact List</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show as a tree</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Usually &kopete; displays contacts and groups as a tree, where group members are indented.  For a simpler appearance, you can disable this, so the contact list becomes a flat list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Sort by group</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>By disabling this, &kopete;'s groups are hidden, and contacts are divided only into <guilabel>Online Contacts</guilabel> and <guilabel>Offline Contacts</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="configuring-behavior-away">
<title>Away Settings</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Notify all open chats when I go away</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Be careful if you enable this item; it will cause a message to be sent to open chats when you become away, which some people may find intrusive.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<sect4 id="configuring-behavior-away-auto">
<title>Auto Away</title>
<para>Here you can choose to have &kopete; set you away after a period of inactivity.</para>
</sect4>
<sect4 id="configuring-behavior-away-messages">
<title>Predefined Away Messages</title>
<para>You can define as many custom away messages as you like here, and choose from them when you go <emphasis>Away</emphasis> using the <guibutton>Status</guibutton> button on the <link linkend="contact-list-layout-toolbar">main toolbar</link>.</para>
</sect4>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="configuring-behavior-chat">
<title>Chat Settings</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise window/tab on new messages</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This causes a chat window to pop up when it receives a new message.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show events in chat window</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Some &im; systems can give extra information, like people joining or leaving chats.  This option lets you receive these messages in your chat window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Highlight messages containing your nickname</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This simply emphasizes messages in a chat that contain your nickname.  For more powerful control over highlighting and other events, see the <link linkend="plugins-highlight">Highlight plugin</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<sect4 id="configuring-behavior-chat-interface">
<title>Interface Preference</title>
<para>&kopete; can send messages using either a <quote>fire and forget</quote> interface that does not wait for a reply, or a chat window where the conversation is visible as it unfolds.  Here you can choose which style to use by default.</para>
</sect4>
<sect4 id="configuring-behavior-chat-grouping">
<title>Chat Window Grouping Policy</title>
<para>If you wish to group chats within tabs in a single window, &kopete; lets you choose several ways to determine the grouping.</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Open all messages in a new chat window</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Group all messages from the same account in the same chat window</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Group all messages in the same chat window</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Group all messages in the same group in the same chat window</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Group all messages from the same metacontact in the same chat window</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect4>
<sect4 id="configuring-behavior-chat-lines">
<title>Chat Window Line Limit</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Maximum number of chat window lines</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This limits the number of lines of text the chat window can display.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect4>
</sect3>
</sect2> <!-- configuring-behavior -->
<sect2 id="configuring-appearance">
<title>Appearance</title>
<para>Appearance governs the style of the Chat window, its colors and fonts, and lets you choose your preferred emoticons.</para>
<sect3 id="configuring-appearance-emoticons">
<title>Emoticons</title>
<para>Emoticons (also known as smileys) are combinations of characters such as <userinput>;-)</userinput>that look like a face, and communicate moods or expressions.  &kopete; can optionally use graphical emoticons in place of the characters themselves.</para>
<para>On this tab, you can select which emoticon set you prefer, or turn off graphical emoticons altogether.</para>
<para>See <link linkend="specialised">Specialized Actions</link> for details of how to install extra emoticon sets.</para>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="configuring-appearance-chat">
<title>Chat Window</title>
<sect4 id="configuring-appearance-chat-styles">
<title>Styles</title>
<para>The style of the chat view can be altered to look like other clients, or you can invent your own style here.  Installed styles are shown in the list on the left and are previewed in the main panel.</para>
<para>Third party styles are available at <ulink url="http://kde-look.org">http://kde-look.org</ulink>.</para>
<para>To modify a style, click <guibutton>Edit...</guibutton>.  &kopete; represents chats internally as XML and uses the Extensible Stylesheet Language (<acronym>XSL</acronym>) to specify how this should be transformed into HTML for display.  You need to be familiar with <acronym>HTML</acronym> and <acronym>XSL</acronym> to edit styles.</para>
</sect4>
<sect4 id="configuring-appearance-chat-translucency">
<title>Chat Window</title>
<para>&kopete; supports translucent chat views.  You can control the degree of translucency and add a color tint here.  Changes to the translucency settings only become visible when a new chat view opens.</para>
</sect4>
</sect3>
<sect3 id="configuring-appearance-colors-fonts">
<title>Colors and Fonts</title>
<sect4 id="configuring-appearance-colors-fonts-chat">
<title>Chat Window Colors</title>
<para>Here you can alter the base font and text colors used for chatting.</para>
</sect4>
<sect4 id="configuring-appearance-colors-fonts-contactlist">
<title>Contact List</title>
<para>Some &im; systems let you see whether contacts are idle at their computers.  This option enables you to change the color used for idle contacts.</para>
</sect4>
</sect3>
</sect2> <!-- configuring-appearance -->
</sect1>

<sect1 id="configuring-load-plugins-dialog">
<title>Loading Plugins</title>
<para>You can customize &kopete; with special functions that may be useful or just a bit of fun.  Bring up the <guilabel>Configure Plugins</guilabel> dialog with  <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure Plugins...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
<para>Plugins can be turned on or off in the list on the left side of the page.  Each plugin may be configured on the right side.  See the <link linkend="plugins">next chapter</link> for details on each plugin.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter> <!-- configuring -->

<chapter id="plugins">
<title>&kopete;'s Plugins</title>
<para>&kopete; offers plugins that provide functions that aren't essential for messaging, but are useful for some people.</para>
<sect1 id="plugins-list">
<title>Plugins</title>
<sect2 id="plugins-auto-replace">
<title>Auto Replace</title>
<para><guilabel>Auto Replace</guilabel> allows you to correct frequently misspelled words or save typing certain words using abbreviations.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-connection-status">
<title>Connection Status</title>
<para><guilabel>Connection Status</guilabel> is useful for modem users or others who don't have a permanent Internet connection.  It watches for an active Internet connection and sets your accounts online when it detects you have dialed up.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-contact-notes">
<title>Contact Notes</title>
<para><guilabel>Contact Notes</guilabel> allows you to note down any useful bits of information on a metacontact.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-cryptography">
<title>Cryptography</title>
<para><guilabel>Cryptography</guilabel> lets you use <application>GnuPG</application> to encrypt conversations.  Note that this is not the same as an SSL secured chat session - this kind of encryption not only ensures the message cannot be tampered with, it also guarantees that only the intended recipient can read the messages.</para>
<para>To configure Cryptography, select your <application>GnuPG</application> key in the configuration page.  Then, using <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Select Cryptography Public Key</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from each contact's context menu, choose their public key.  You will be prompted for your passphrase when using this plugin.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-highlight">
<title>Highlight</title>
<para><guilabel>Highlight</guilabel> works a little like e-mail filters, in that it allows you to make things happen in response to particular messages.  As well as highlighting the text, you can play sounds.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-history">
<title>History</title>
<para>The <guilabel>History</guilabel> plugin, when activated, records conversations using any &im; system and allows you to view old conversations later.  A <menuchoice><guimenuitem>History</guimenuitem></menuchoice> item appears in each Metacontact's context menu, to view the message history for that metacontact.</para>
<para>The following item is added to the Contact List's menus:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>View History</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>(Enabled when a contact is selected) This displays the History browser for the selected contact.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>The following items are added to the Chat window's menus:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Shift;<keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>History Previous</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This enables you to view the next oldest set of messages from the History, in the Chat window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Shift;<keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>History Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This shows the next newest set of messages from the History, in the Chat window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>History Last</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This shows the most recent set of messages from the History, in the Chat window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="plugins-motion-auto-away">
<title>Motion Auto-Away</title>
<para>In conjunction with a webcam and the <application>Video4Linux</application> package, this lets you detect when you're no longer at your computer and have &kopete; automatically become <emphasis>Away</emphasis>.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-now-listening">
<title>Now Listening</title>
<para>With the <guilabel>Now Listening plugin</guilabel>, let people you're chatting with know what you're listening to, by typing <userinput>/media</userinput> in a chat, or with <menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send Media Info</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in the Chat window.</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-text-effect">
<title>Text Effect</title>
<para>Text Effect applies funny effects to your messages before sending them, like coloring them or changing the case of the words.  Just don't forget you have activated it - we've had bug reports from forgetful <guilabel>Text Effect</guilabel> users!</para>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-translator">
<title>Translator</title>
<para>The Translator plugin lets you define a preferred language for each Metacontact, and then translates messages to or from them using web based translation services such as <trademark>Google</trademark> and <trademark>Babelfish</trademark>.  Set your own preferred language in the Configure Plugins dialog.  Each contact's preferred language can be set on its context menu.</para>
<para>The following item is added to the Chat window's menus:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>T</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Translate</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>If you did not turn on automatic translation, this translates the current chat.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="plugins-web-presence">
<title>Web Presence</title>
<para>Web Presence allows you to publicize your &im; presence on the Web.  Give it the path to a file on an FTP server (for example), and it will upload a short piece of HTML to that file, which you can include in your homepage.  &kde;'s network transparency makes this simple.  Useful for bloggers to make friends with, or you could use it to use &im; in your business.</para>
<para>Example: <userinput>sftp://username@somehost.org/path/to/homes/user/im.html</userinput> uses the <acronym>SFTP</acronym> protocol to upload your presence directly onto the webserver.</para>
<para>See <ulink url="help:/kioslave/index.html">the KIO manuals</ulink> for tips on specific network protocols.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="plugins-contributing">
<title>Contributing a plugin</title>
<para>&kopete; is designed to make it easy to create plugins that give it extra functions. So if you've got a great idea to make &kopete; even better, <link linkend="intro-to-kopete-web">get in touch</link>!</para>
</sect1>
</chapter><!-- plugins -->

&kopete-menus;

<chapter id="faq">
<title>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
<qandaset> 
<qandaentry>
<question><para>What does &kopete; mean? How do I pronounce it?</para></question>
<answer><para>&kopete;'s name comes from the chilean word Copete, meaning <quote>a drink with your friends</quote>. Duncan, the original author, recorded an <ulink type="audio/vorbis" url="http://kopete.kde.org/files/kopete_en.ogg">audio sample</ulink>.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry> 
<question><para>How do I send messages using just the <keycap>Enter</keycap> key?</para>
</question>
<answer><para>You can change it in the Chat window using <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></para>
<para>This is because In &kde; applications such as &kopete;, you configure keyboard shortcuts in the window where you use the shortcut.  <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Enter;</keycombo> is the &kde; default shortcut for Send Message.</para></answer>
</qandaentry> 
<qandaentry> 
<question><para>When I have more than one messaging service under a user's name in my contact list and I click on that user's name, it will message them on the wrong messaging service.</para>
</question>
<answer><para>You can change the order of accounts Kopete tries to message people with by using the Up and Down arrows in the bottom right corner of the account configuration screen. Kopete will try to connect with accounts starting from the top. However, if one service has a higher status value that the others for that user, Kopete will use that one. For example, if a person has three services and two are maked as away and the third is marked as online, Kopete will always try to message the user using the online service.</para><tip><para>If you click on the small protocol icon on the right of the menu item, instead of on the person's name, you will always try to contact the person using that service!</para></tip>
</answer>
</qandaentry> 
<qandaentry> 
<question><para>I need to connect via a SOCKS proxy, but I can't find any proxy configuration options in &kopete;.  How do I set up &kopete; to use SOCKS?</para>
</question>
<answer><itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><trademark>MSN</trademark>, <trademark>ICQ</trademark> and <trademark>AIM</trademark> use &kde; network infrastructure.  Their SOCKS proxy details are configured with the rest of &kde;, in <application>Control Center</application><menuchoice><guimenu>Internet &amp; Network</guimenu><guimenuitem>Proxy</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Jabber has its own SOCKS implementation in the Advanced tab of its account configuration.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Yahoo does not support SOCKS proxies yet.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry> 
<question><para>Is it possible to customise the icons I see in &kopete;?</para></question>
<answer><para>You can switch between different emoticons using the Emoticons tab of the Appearance page of the Configure &kopete; dialog.</para>
<para>To install new emoticons, first look at <ulink url="ttp://www.kde-look.org/content/search.php">KDE-Look.org</ulink>, where there are a lot of additional emoticon sets to download:</para>

<para>The emoticons are easy to install - you just place a directory containing 
the icon files and an XML file describing the mapping from text to picture in 
$KDEDIR/share/apps/kopete/pics/emoticons (or $KDEHOME, for example, in /home/joeuser/.kde/).</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>Copy the EmotiKons directory to $KDEDIR/share/apps/kopete/pics/emoticons or 
 $HOME/.kde/share/apps/kopete/pics/emoticons (or wherever $KDEHOME is).</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Select Configure &kopete; from the Settings menu and click on Appearance in the left panel of the Preferences windows and click on the Emoticons tab.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Select the emoticons set you just installed from the list.</para></listitem> 
<listitem><para>Now you can use the newly installed emoticons in Kopete.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
<para>To replace the protocol icons, you'll have to replace the icons in  
$KDEDIR/share/apps/kopete/icons, or provide replacements to override them in 
the same dir under $KDEHOME.  At present there aren't any complete replacement 
sets that you can simply extract there.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset> 
</chapter> <!-- faq -->

<chapter id="specialised">
<title>Specialized Actions</title>
<para>Command line parameters</para>
<para>Installing emoticon sets</para>
</chapter> <!-- specialised -->

<chapter id="credits-and-licenses">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>
<para>
&kopete;: copyright 2001-2003, &kopete; Developers
</para>
&underFDL;
&underGPL;
<sect1 id="team">
<title>Current Development Team</title>
<!-- please keep in sync with the authors list on the webpage -->
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Duncan Mac-Vicar Prett (duncan at kde org): Original author, core developer and project leader</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Martijn Klingens (klingens at kde org): Core developer, MSN hacker</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Olivier Goffart (ogoffart at tiscalinet be): Core developer, MSN Plugin Maintainer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Stefan Gehn (sgehn at gmx net): Developer, ICQ Plugin Maintainer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Till Gerken (till at tantalo net): Developer, Jabber maintainer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Matt Rogers ( mattr at matt rogers name ): Developer, Yahoo Plugin Maintainer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Jason Keirstead (jason at keirstead org): Developer, IRC Plugin Maintainer, Website</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Grzegorz Jaskiewicz (gregj at pointblue com pl): Developer, Gadu-gadu Plugin Maintainer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Andy Goossens (andygoossens at pandora be): Current version maintainer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Gav Wood (gav at kde org): WinPopup Plugin author, Yahoo hacker</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Will Stephenson (lists at stevello free-online co uk): Developer, icons, plugins, manual author</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Zack Rusin (zack at kde org): Developer, old Gadu-gadu Plugin author</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>James Grant (topace at lightbox org): Developer, importer Plugin author</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="ex-team">
<title>Former Developers (&kopete; Hall Of Fame)</title>
<para>These people have moved on from &kopete;, so don't contact them for &kopete; support.  We're eternally grateful for their contributions.  </para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Christopher TenHarmsel (tenharmsel at users sourceforge net)Developer, Oscar hacker</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Ryan Cumming (ryan at kde org): Core developer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Richard Stellingwerff (remenic at linuxfromscratch org): Developer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Hendrik vom Lehn (hennevl at hennevl de): Developer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Robert Gogolok (robertgogolock at gmx de): Developer</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Nick Betcher (nbetcher at kde org): Original author of ICQ, AIM and IRC plugins</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Daniel Stone (dstone at kde org): Original Jabber plugin author</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="documentation">
<title>Documentation</title>
<para>
Documentation copyright 2003, Will Stephenson (lists at stevello free-online co uk)
</para>
</sect1>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</chapter><!-- credits-and-licenses -->

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>
<sect1 id="getting-kopete">
<title>How to obtain &kopete;</title>
&install.intro.documentation;
<para>Development versions may be downloaded at &kopetewww;.</para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Required Libraries</title>
<para>If you installed &kopete; as part of your distribution, you probably have these installed already.</para>
<para>The Gadu-gadu plugin requires the libgadu package, see <ulink url="http://gj.pointblue.com.pl/projects/kopete/">this page</ulink> for details.</para>
<para>The Now Listening plugin needs libxmms if you want to access what <application>xmms</application> is currently playing; this should be available in your distribution but is available as part of the xmms package at <ulink url="http://www.xmms.org">the xmms homepage</ulink>.</para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>
&install.compile.documentation;
</sect1>
</appendix>
&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

// vim:ts=2:sw=2:tw=78:noet
-->
